Ghormeh Sabzi (Persian Herb Stew)
Ingredients for ghormeh sabzi
Yellow onions: You’ll want to use chopped yellow onions for this recipe. We’ll cook them in the oil until they’re golden brown before searing off the stew meat.
Olive Oil: You can use ghee, vegetable oil or any other kind of oil you like to use at home for cooking.
Garlic: You can use as little or as much garlic as you’d like. I usually use around 5 cloves.
Spices: you’ll of course need salt, turmeric, and black pepper. Though it’s not a spice, you’ll also need a bouillon cube. The bouillon is optional, but it does amp up the flavor of the stock that the meat simmers in. I usually use chicken bouillon, though beef also makes sense.
Beef: For the meat you want something that can stand up to the long-simmering time this stew requires. I use what my butcher marks as ‘stew meat.’ This is something like a chuck roast or round eye and contains a lot of connective tissue that will break down as the stew gently simmers. Tender chunks of lamb also work. I usually like to have chunks that are about 1½-inch cubes.
Dried Limes: Also called lemoo amani. These are dried persian limes that give the stew the most delicious depth of flavor. This is one of those ingredients that you’ll find at a middle eastern grocery store for or you can order them online here!
Herbs, Herbs, Herbs: This stew is a nutrition powerhouse with all the greens! You’ll need a ton of herbs here. You’ll need bunches of parsley and a small bunch cilantro, and then I’ll also use green onions, and dried fenugreek. Fresh fenugreek will also work for this recipe, however, it’s sometimes a pain to clean, and the dried herbs work just as well. The chopping of the herbs takes the longest hands-on time in this recipe. If I know I’m planning on making this, I usually try to wash and dry the herbs a day ahead of time. I’ll even chop the herbs and spinach and box them up for the next day as that cuts down the prep time significantly!
Baby Spinach: I like to use baby spinach instead of regular spinach. Baby spinach comes cleaned and just requires some chopping. Regular spinach would need to be soaked to get all the dirt and grit out before you dry and chop it.
Red Kidney Beans: Parts of Iran use kidney beans in their ghormeh sabzi. North and northwest Iran uses black-eyed peas. I’ve even seen people use pinto beans. All this to say that you have a few options here.
Lemon Juice: Use lemon or fresh lime juice towards the end to cut through the richness of the stew.
How to make ghormeh sabzi
 Start the stew. In a large pot or dutch oven, add a generous drizzle of oil, and cook the onions over medium heat when it’s hot. Saute the onions until they’re slightly golden. Then add the minced garlic, ground turmeric, and black pepper. When the garlic is fragrant, stir in the meat and let it sear evenly all over. Season the meat with salt, the bouillon cube, and add the water. Bring the stew to a simmer, then lower the heat and simmer uncovered for an hour.
Simmer simmer simmer. Poke holes in the dried limes with a fork or a paring knife. Then add them to the stew. Cover the pot with a lid but leave a sliver so that the stew vents.
Saute the herbs. When there’s roughly 20 minutes left. Add a glug of oil to a large skillet or deep saute pan and add the herbs over medium-high heat. Saute the greens until they wilt down to less than half the size. I use dried fenugreek and add that in during the last two minutes.
Simmer again. Add the greens to the stew along with the drained kidney beans, cover the pot with a sliver to vent and let it simmer again for an hour. The theme here is simmer! The lower and slower you cook this, the more tender the meat and the more flavorful the stew!
Serve it up. Remove the dried limes and keep them to the side if you plan on serving them with the stew. Check the meat to see if it’s done with a paring knife. If the knife goes through with some resistance, let it simmer for longer until it’s super tender. When the meat is done, add the lemon juice. Taste and adjust with more salt as the stew needs. Then serve it up with tahdig or basmati rice and shirazi salad.
