Shrimp and Mushrooms in a Garlic Bisque Sauce
254 comments
This shrimp and mushroom sauce is luscious, juicy & just succulent. It's delicious over mashed potatoes, rice or pasta, making it an all-around great dish!

This post may contain affiliate links. Read my disclosure policy.

This shrimp and mushrooms sauce is luscious, juicy and just succulent. It’s delicious over mashed potatoes, rice or pasta, making it an all-around great dish! I also discovered that it reheats wonderfully so you can make it a day ahead and warm it up stove-top before serving.

We stopped in to visit friends in Nevada on our way home from California a couple weeks ago and Lyuda (who sure knows her way around the kitchen), served us an amazing lunch which included this shrimp and mushroom garlic bisque sauce over some fluffy white rice. I shamelessly re-filled my plate 4 times. It was an instant favorite.

Lyuda shared the recipe with me and I’ve already served it to company at our house, this time over chive mashed potatoes. It was a hit! Lyuda also gave me her recipe for a delicious crab salad that she served and I will post it soon (stay tuned!).

Ingredients for the Shrimp and Mushrooms in a Garlic Bisque Sauce:
3 Tbsp Olive Oil
3 medium tomatoes
5 cloves of garlic, pressed
1 Lb Mushrooms
1 medium onion, finely diced
1 tsp salt
1 Tbsp sweet chili sauce
½ cup sour cream (not low fat)
1 Lb large shrimp, peeled and deveined (I left the tail on for effect)
1 1/2 cups reduced sodium chicken broth
1 tsp sea salt


AD
Shrimp & Mushroom Sauce


AD
How to Make an amazing Shrimp Bisque Sauce:
1. In a large heavy bottom skillet or a WOK, combine your diced tomatoes and pressed garlic with 3 Tbsp olive oil and simmer uncovered over medium heat until tomatoes are soft and release their juices (10-12 min). Remove your tomatoes and set aside

shrimp-and-mushrooms-in-a-garlic-bisque-sauce

2. In the same skillet over med/high heat, caramelize your diced onions and sliced mushrooms then add the tomato mixture back into the same pan.

shrimp-and-mushrooms-in-a-garlic-bisque-sauce-1

3. Add 1 tsp salt, 1/2 cup sour cream and 1 Tbsp chili sauce. Stir to combine. Add in 1 1/2 cups chicken broth and stir to combine.

shrimp-and-mushrooms-in-a-garlic-bisque-sauce-2

4. Bring your sauce to a simmer over med/high heat and add in the shrimp. Turn the shrimp a couple times in the sauce while cooking and simmer until shrimp is cooked through. Don’t overcook or your shrimp will turn rubbery

Shrimp & Mushroom Sauce-11

Shrimp & Mushroom Sauce-12

Let the sauce cool down a little bit (it will thicken a little as it cools) then serve over your favorite plain rice, pasta or mashed potatoes. It’s soooo good! These pictures don’t even do it justice. If you could just chomp down on one of these juicy shrimpers. Oh goodness!


AD
shrimp-and-mushrooms-in-a-garlic-bisque-sauce-2


AD
This shrimp and mushroom sauce is luscious, juicy & just succulent. It's delicious over mashed potatoes, rice or pasta, making it an all-around great dish! 

